---


title: "Techness.ca"

permalink: /techness/

---





## Website - [Techness.ca](https://techness.ca)

### Quick Summary
Hi, This post is about technical details of **Why**  and **How** I created techness.ca.

I don't want another tutorial website. My aim to document all the technical aspects of my project, just like a technical journal.
This website is where I can write all the problems I faced while doing the project, and the solution to them

P.S - I will keep updating to this post as I am still improving the techness.ca and working on it to add new feature.

--- 

### Stack Used for creating Techness.ca
 1. Jekyll (SSG aka Static Site Gnerator )
 2. Github
 3. Github Page
 4. Dilinger (editor)


### What is Static Site Generator, and Why have I used it?

***Problems***

Let's start with the basics. If I want to create a simple website with a few pages, the traditional way is to create one or two HTML pages and some CSS and javascript files.
Let's assume there are three pages 
1. Home
2. About 
3. Contact


I have to create a header and footer for all three mentioned pages.
If I want to change or fix something in the header or footer, I have to make changes on all three pages, which is a pain in the neck when the website grows. 

Other than this, if I want to create a blog-like website. Then the obvious choice will be WordPress(there are many cms like ghost, drupal, and Joomla). Setting up these cms is another big task. I have to install a bunch of stuff to make the cms up and running. Once it's ready with set up, I have to select a theme, and then my post and page will look and feel like the theme I chose. I want to customize the look and feel of a few pages or pages other than what I get from the selected theme. WordPress allows me to do that, but it involves a basic understanding of PHP and the file structure of WordPress. More and more in any cms, as the content grows, the website starts to load slowly and needs constant maintenance because to render a requested page, the server needs to do a lot more work.
 
 ***Solution***
 

With any Jeklly, I don't have to make changes in all the files that require standard functionality like header and footer.

I need to create a layout file that includes these headers and footers, then all I need is to mention the layout in the new page/post. The header and footer will automatically render. Setting up and customizing the SSG is a piece of cake. I don't need to know any server-side scripting language; just markdown language and liquid Js (as jeklly make use of templating engine) will do the job. I don't need a bulky server to run SSG. It's super fast because all the content is static.
 
 


### GITHUB
Well, As well know what is git. It is version controll. If any one don't know what is git, here is great [tutorial](https://youtu.be/apGV9Kg7ics) about git. And Github is code hosting platform for version control and collaboration.


### GITHUB PAGE
[Github page](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/about-github-pages) is hosting service provide by github. Here you can deploy static website (html,csss and javascript). It is one of the easist way to deploy web page.


### Dilinger
[Dilinger](https://dillinger.io) is basically an markdown editor. There are bunch of markdown editors available. I like dilinger so, I write markdown in this editor.

Markdown is plain text formatting syntax for making writing for the internet easier. To know more about markdown here is the [link](https://www.markdownguide.org/getting-started/)


---

### How

Techness.ca's website is created and hosted on the Github page. To host a website with a GitHub page is a piece of cake. [Click](https://pages.github.com) to know how I deployed the website using the Github page.

Lastly, I invested heavily in learning jeklly so that I could customize the website as I wanted


